So before we actually get into writing the container parsing
code, I just want to take a look at a couple of the helper
classes that we're going to use here.
So we have an IoCException class.
So if there's any exception that gets thrown by the container,
we'll catch that exception and wrap it inside our own IOC exception so that the
application is aware this has come from the IOC container.
We have a Loader class, and the job of the Loader class is to
load the configuration from the JSON file.
So this is using things like an ObjectMapper class to map JSON
objects into Java objects and then load those up.
The JSON config file that we saw looks like this.
So this is an array of information about things to load,
and each of these things will call a registration, so there's a
Registration class that the loader loads things into, so in the loader,
we map through the configuration and pick out the objects, we parse the
data from the JSON into a registration object, and we store this thing
into the list of registrations,
we return that list from this loadConfiguration method, as
well as a simple configuration with an abstract type
having on it some concrete type.
We'll also need to deal with more complex configuration where
the type we are mapping to, say Meeting in this case, takes
multiple constructor parameters,
some of which might be types that are registered inside the container or some
which might be primitive types or maybe even string types.
So we need to see how we build those objects as well.
So here, for example,
we have a Meeting class for the meeting constructor, and that
takes an IMeetingService, but also takes a string.
Now we've seen that to create an IMeetingService, we can also
configure that inside our configuration JSON file, and that will
map onto some type like a MeetingService.
But string is an abstract class.
String is a concrete type, and the same will go for
other primitive types as well.
If we wanted to pass, say, an int or a double or a float to our constructor,
we need a way of configuring that inside our JSON file as well. And the way
we do that is by specifying the name of the constructor parameter and the
value of that parameter when we pass it in.
So as an example,
here we have a class, which is a stupidly long name just for testing
purposes, and here's the constructor for that class.
The key thing is that this constructor has two constructor
parameters. It takes something of type of Logger and something of
type String, and we need to configure that.
So here in my Configuration class, config.json, I have my type, so this silly
name with the interface and master, a silly name of implementation, and then
here we specify one of the constructorParams.
We specify the value param. Let me actually give that the value of 23.
So if I look back in the type itself,
that's this constructor parameter here. As before,
it gets the logger parameter from the fact that Logger is
also registered inside the container.
So inside the configuration, we map Logger to FileLogger.
So the idea with the IOC container is that any types that are mapped inside the
configuration file, it picks up from the configuration file.
But things such as primitive types and strings, it will
pick up from the constructorParams.
So here this is the name of the value we pass into the constructor,
and this is the value of that value we want to pass into that constructor.
So just to recap.
We have a loader that has a loadConfiguration method.
This loadConfiguration method gets called and reads
through our configuration file,
which is the JSON file. That maps values from this
file into a list of registrations.
The Registration class contains things like the type that we want to load
up, the thing that we are mapping to, and then any information about those types such as its constructor parameters.